
What is the Object class?
Can you cite methods from the Object class?
What differences between String and char[]? 
How do you the sum the elements of an array? 
What is the JVM?
How can you sort an array?
What is the main characteristic of the String class?
What is the difference between == and equals()?
What about equals() and hashCode()?
How can you duplicate an array?
12How can you reverse a String?
What is a functional interface? 
Difference between overriding and overloading? 
What is a Map?
What is an ArrayList?
Explain finally
How to make a class immutable? 
Difference between String, StringBuffer, and String Builder
20How to create a Singleton?
What is a static method?
How can you find a character in a String?
What is a method reference?
What is a default method?
What is a JIT? 
What kind of method can you override? 
What is the signature of a method?
What is a marker interface? 
29What is the difference between Collection and a Set? 
30How does finalize() work? 
What were the main features of Java 8?
Do Streams and Collections have common methods?
How can you tell that a String is an anagram of another String? 
On what kind of source can you build a stream?
35What is a groupingBy()? 
36What is the difference between FIFO and LIFO?
What is the GoF?
How can you create a Comparator?
Can you cite functional interfaces from before Java 8?
Difference between a sorted and an ordered collection?
How can you open a file for reading binary data?
How can you print an array on the console?
How does a SortedSet work? 
What pattern has been used to create the Java I/O API?
How can you count how many time a letter appears in a String?
What is a bucket in a Map? 
What does synchronized mean?
What is the difference between a Collection and a Stream?
What is the difference between File and Path?
What difference between a checked and an unchecked Exception?
What is the hash code of an object?
What is an ExecutorService?
What is an Iterator? 
What are the four Java I/O base classes? 
How many objects can you put in a Collection?
59What is the maximum length of a String in Java?
How does a Set knows that it already contains an element? 
How is Arrays.asList() working?
Can you cite some methods from the Stream API?
What is the var keyword in Java? 
How can you create an unmodifiable list?
What is the class named Class? 
How can you find duplicates in a list?
What is a sealed type in Java? 
How is List.of() working?
How can you start a Thread? 
What is the difference between Runnable and Thread? 
What is the difference between map() and flatMap()? -
How is synchronization working?
What is a generic type?
Use generic types to maximize code reuse, type safety, and performance.
will introduce strong type checking and eliminates the explisit casting and enable to design the generic algorithem

How can you stop a Thread?
How can you remove elements from a Stream? -
How is Set.of() working?
How can you join Strings with a separator? 
How can you update a field using the Reflection API? 
How can you declare a generic type on a static method? 
What does passing by value mean?
Difference between and intermediate and a terminal operation? 
What list can you pass to a method that takes a List of Number? 
What is a deadlock?
Creating an instance of a Class using the Reflection API?
How can you model a concurrent task in Java? 
Difference between toList() and Collectors.toList()? 
Comparing Doubles with a comparator of Numbers?
How can you model a concurrent task in Java?
What is an annotation? 
When should you use ? extends T?
What is a Constructor?
What is a short-circuit method ?
What is an atomic variable?
What is a Record?
How can you invoke a method using the Reflection API? 
What is a ConcurrentModification Exception? 
What is a collector? 
What is a daemon thread? 
What is a race condition? 
What is the type ? super T? 
What does static mean?
 



What is an enumeration?
How is the List.sublist() method working?








118 How can you create a Map to hold 20 elements?


112.what is Iterable?
An interfaces extend by collection
one abstract method iterator
create and iterable using foreach
Iterable<> 
115. What are the four fundamental functional interfaces in Java? Java 
Consumer<String> consumer = s-> System.out.println(s); take a argument and return nothing
Suppiler<Double> supplier = () -> Math.PI; doesn't take anything and return something
Function<String, Integer> length = s-> s.length(); takes something and return something else
Predicate<Integer> predicate = i -> i% 2 == 0; takes argument and return boolean    
Runnable task = () -> "I am the fifth"; doesn't take any argument and doesn't return anything
BiConsumer<String, String> biCons = (s1,s2) -> System.out.println(s1+s2)
BiFunction<String, String, Integer> 
BiPredicate 
takes two arguments
UnaryOperator<String> unary = 
BinaryOperator<String> binary = (S1,s2) -> s1 + "" + s2
specilization for premitive type


What does Thread.interrupt()?
tries to interrupt your thread in two ways
it can make 

sleep(), wiat(), motify()
Synchronization
Methoids in I/) and NIO
dont try to 
use Executor and fork join pool


106. What does Comparable mean?

107.How can you create a prefilled map?
Map.of(1, "one", 2, "aa". -- until 10 pattern) you can't overload this kind of method with vararg
var e1=Map.entry(1, "")
var e2=Map.entry(2,"")
Map.ofEntries(e1,e2)
Map and entrier are non-modifiable, you can not pass the same key
you can't use null key or values

108,What is the return type of max()
An Optional 

and this is what you need 
8445455640

Null or Integer.MIN_Value

105. why is Thread.stop() deprecated?
Because it is unsafe. 
It could lead to an inconsistent state
Or to resource leaking
It now throws and exception
deprecated in 1.2

103.What is a downstream collector?
A Collector !
That you can pass to the methods of Collectors

Needed for mapping filtering flatMapping

102.What is the type ?


100.What is a race condition? 

109 what is Future?
An object to communcate with the task that is being executed in another thread

you get a future object when you submit a Runnable or a callable to an executiveService
executorservice immidiatly give you future object once you submit your task. but it will execte in an other thread , to check either the task is done or any it produce any error
there is overloaded method that takes timeout. this may be safer to preare this pattern rather an regualer get

starting with java 21 . we have state which return running, success, failed or canceled.

110. What is multiple inheritance?
Type Inheritance - 
Behaviour Inheritance - concreate methods 
State Inheritance - not supported by java
Favour object orientaion 
111. What is the no-arg empty constructor?
compilar will create empty no org constrctor if it finds no constrctor in the class
If you create a class and dont provide anything then compilar will add the no arg constuctpor
if you have argument constrctor and no no-org constrctor then it will have compilar error

Used to create object using this while in relfaction
114 What is the first thing a consructor is do?
It calls another constructor, the other constrctor can be from same the class or from super. Constructing an object require for all the consructor to be called
Super or this